What is a data warehouse? ;; A central repository of data integrated from multiple sources that serves as the single source of truth—storing current and historical data that has been cleansed, conformed, and categorized.
What state is data in when loaded into a data warehouse? ;; It is already modeled and structured for a specific purpose, meaning it's analysis-ready.
What types of data were traditionally stored in data warehouses? ;; Relational data from transactional systems and operational databases such as CRM, ERP, HR, and Finance applications.
What are the three tiers of a typical data warehouse architecture? ;; The bottom tier with database servers, the middle tier with OLAP Server, and the topmost tier with client front-end layer.
What is the function of the middle tier (OLAP Server) in a data warehouse? ;; It allows users to process and analyze information coming from multiple database servers.
What are four benefits of cloud-based data warehouses? ;; Lower costs, limitless storage and compute capabilities, scale on a pay-as-you-go basis, and faster disaster recovery.
What is a data mart? ;; A sub-section of the data warehouse, built specifically for a particular business function, purpose, or community of users.
What are the three basic types of data marts? ;; Dependent, independent, and hybrid data marts.
What is a dependent data mart? ;; A sub-section of an enterprise data warehouse that offers analytical capabilities for a restricted area of the data warehouse.
Where do independent data marts source their data from? ;; Sources other than an enterprise data warehouse, such as internal operational systems or external data.
What is a data lake? ;; A data repository that can store large amounts of structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data in their native format.
How does data storage in a data lake differ from a data warehouse? ;; A data lake stores raw data in its native format, while a data warehouse stores data that has been cleaned, processed, and transformed for a specific need.
What technologies can be used to deploy data lakes? ;; Cloud Object Storage (like Amazon S3), large-scale distributed systems (like Apache Hadoop), relational database management systems, and NoSQL data repositories.
What are four benefits of data lakes? ;; Ability to store all types of data, agility to scale based on storage capacity, saving time in defining structures, and ability to repurpose data in several different ways.
What types of data can a data lake store? ;; Unstructured data (documents, emails, PDFs), semi-structured data (JSON, XML, CSV, logs), and structured data from relational databases.
What is the common goal of all data mining repositories? ;; To house data for reporting, analysis, and deriving insights.
When would an organization opt for a data warehouse? ;; When they have massive amounts of data from operational systems that need to be readily available for reporting and analysis.
What are some popular data warehouse platforms? ;; Teradata Enterprise Data Warehouse platform, Oracle Exadata, IBM Db2 Warehouse on Cloud, IBM Netezza Performance Server, Amazon RedShift, BigQuery by Google, Cloudera's Enterprise Data Hub, and Snowflake Cloud Data Warehouse.
What is the purpose of a data mart? ;; To provide users' data that is most relevant to them when they need it, accelerate business processes, provide a cost and time-efficient way for data-driven decisions, improve end-user response time, and provide secure access and control.
What is important to maintain while data is in a data lake? ;; The data should be appropriately classified, protected, and governed.